---
layout: post
title: GRASP Principles ("Firmly GRASP it!" - Patrick Star)
---

### Controller
  - Object that is responsible for receiving and coordinating the operations of a system. 
  - Delegates/distributes work that needs to be done to other objects. It should not do much work itself. 

### Creator
  - Limit the creation of objects to only one or a few places
  - Class B should be responsible for creating instances of class A if one, or preferably more, of the following apply:
       - Instances of B contain or compositely aggregate instances of A
       - Instances of B record instances of A
       - Instances of B closely use instances of A
       - Instances of B have the initializing information for instances of A and pass it on creation.

### Indirection
  - Supports low coupling and reuse potential btwn two elements by assigning the responsibility of mediation btwn them to an intermediate object. 

### Information Expert
  - Like Single Responsibility principle
  - Keep objects as focused and simple as possible
  - Look at a given responsibility, determine the info needed to fulfill it, then determine where that information is stored.
  - Class that has the most info should have responsibility

### High Cohesion
  - Attempts to keep objects appropriately focused, manageable and understandable
  - Responsibilities of a given element should be strongly related and highly focused
  - Using classes and subclasses increase cohesion because each object can focus on its responsility 


### Low Coupling
  - Coupling is a measure of how strongly one object is connected to, has knowledge of, or relies on other object. 
  - Strive for low number of import statements
  - Pros:
      *lower dependency btwn classes
      *change in one class has lower impact on other classes
      *easier to reuse classes

### Polymorphism
  - Responsibility for defining variation of behaviors based on type is assigned to the type for which this variation happens. 
  - classes and subclasses

### Protected Variations
  - You should protect how objects can be changed
  - try to limit number of setters
  - Protect objects from variations on other objects by wrapping the focus of instability w/an interface and using polymorphism to create various implementations of this interface.

### Pure Fabrication
  - Object that is specially made up to achieve low coupling, high cohesion, and reusability
  - Use that object to accomplish common functionality in your code
