---
layout: post
title: Functional Interfaces in Java
---

### BiConsumer<T,U>	
Represents an operation that accepts two input arguments and returns no result.

### BiFunction<T,U,R>	
Represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces a result.

### BinaryOperator<T>	
Represents an operation upon two operands of the same type, producing a result of the same type as the operands.

### BiPredicate<T,U>	
Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of two arguments.

### BooleanSupplier	
Represents a supplier of boolean-valued results.

### Consumer<T>	
Represents an operation that accepts a single input argument and returns no result.

### DoubleBinaryOperator	
Represents an operation upon two double-valued operands and producing a double-valued result.

### DoubleConsumer	
Represents an operation that accepts a single double-valued argument and returns no result.

### DoubleFunction<R>	
Represents a function that accepts a double-valued argument and produces a result.

### DoublePredicate	
Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of one double-valued argument.

### DoubleSupplier	
Represents a supplier of double-valued results.

### DoubleToIntFunction	
Represents a function that accepts a double-valued argument and produces an int-valued result.

### DoubleToLongFunction	
Represents a function that accepts a double-valued argument and produces a long-valued result.

### DoubleUnaryOperator	
Represents an operation on a single double-valued operand that produces a double-valued result.

### Function<T,R>	
Represents a function that accepts one argument and produces a result.

### IntBinaryOperator	
Represents an operation upon two int-valued operands and producing an int-valued result.

### IntConsumer	
Represents an operation that accepts a single int-valued argument and returns no result.

### IntFunction<R>	
Represents a function that accepts an int-valued argument and produces a result.

### IntPredicate	
Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of one int-valued argument.

### IntSupplier	
Represents a supplier of int-valued results.

### IntToDoubleFunction	
Represents a function that accepts an int-valued argument and produces a double-valued result.

### IntToLongFunction	
Represents a function that accepts an int-valued argument and produces a long-valued result.

### IntUnaryOperator	
Represents an operation on a single int-valued operand that produces an int-valued result.

### LongBinaryOperator	
Represents an operation upon two long-valued operands and producing a long-valued result.

### LongConsumer	
Represents an operation that accepts a single long-valued argument and returns no result.

### LongFunction<R>	
Represents a function that accepts a long-valued argument and produces a result.

### LongPredicate	
Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of one long-valued argument.

### LongSupplier	
Represents a supplier of long-valued results.

### LongToDoubleFunction	
Represents a function that accepts a long-valued argument and produces a double-valued result.

### LongToIntFunction	
Represents a function that accepts a long-valued argument and produces an int-valued result.

### LongUnaryOperator	
Represents an operation on a single long-valued operand that produces a long-valued result.

### ObjDoubleConsumer<T>	
Represents an operation that accepts an object-valued and a double-valued argument, and returns no result.

### ObjIntConsumer<T>	
Represents an operation that accepts an object-valued and a int-valued argument, and returns no result.

### ObjLongConsumer<T>	
Represents an operation that accepts an object-valued and a long-valued argument, and returns no result.

### Predicate<T>	
Represents a predicate (boolean-valued function) of one argument.

### Supplier<T>	
Represents a supplier of results.

### ToDoubleBiFunction<T,U>	
Represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces a double-valued result.

### ToDoubleFunction<T>	
Represents a function that produces a double-valued result.

### ToIntBiFunction<T,U>	
Represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces an int-valued result.

### ToIntFunction<T>	
Represents a function that produces an int-valued result.

### ToLongBiFunction<T,U>	
Represents a function that accepts two arguments and produces a long-valued result.

### ToLongFunction<T>	
Represents a function that produces a long-valued result.

### UnaryOperator<T>	
Represents an operation on a single operand that produces a result of the same type as its operand.
