---
layout: post
title: Observer Pattern and its Enabling Features in Java!
---

The Observer Pattern is defined as establishing a dependency between objects so that when one object changes, all its dependents are notified and updated automatically.

### Java supports this design pattern through the Observable class and Observer interface. ###
The Observeable class represents an object that can be observed by any other object, as long as it implements the Observer interface. Calling the Observable's **notifyObservers()** method causes all of its observers to be notified of the change, by calling the **update()** on each Observer object.

### Methods ###
 * _addObserver(Observer o)_ - Adds observer to the set of observers for this object, cannot be same as observer already in set.
 * _clearChanged()_ - Shows that this object has no longer changed, or that it already notified all of its observers of most recent change.
 * _countObservers()_ - Returns the number of observers of this Observable object.
 * _deleteObserver(Observer o)_ - Deletes ONE observer (which ever Observer is passed to it) from the set of observers of this object.
 * _deleteObservers()_ - Deletes ALL observers of this object.
 * _hasChanged()_ - Tests if this object has changed. returns boolean
 * _notifyObservers()_ - If object has changed, then notify all observers.
 * _setChanged()_ - Marks this Observable object as having been changed; the hasChanged method will now return true.

**Sources:**

https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Observable.html
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/Observer.html

